have you ever been in a conversation
with someone and you realize they're not
really paying attention to what you're
saying there's nothing worse than this
and in this video I'm going to give you
five ways to show your active listening
skills so that the other person you're
talking to feels like you're fully
engaged in the conversation first tip is
to give your full attention to the
person you're listening to this seems
very straightforward but there are so
many distractions that happen in our
everyday lives and one of the big ones
is our phone many people are tempted to
check their phone if it buzzes or
periodically to see if they have any new
messages and when you do that you're
basically telling the person you're
listening to that they are not as
important as whatever information is on
your device and that's not a good
feeling for the other person sometimes
we find we're at networking events and
there's a lot of background noises
or other conversations we can hear on
the side and it's really difficult to
pay full attention to the person we're
listening to but do your best to really
focus on what that person is saying
block out those other noises and other
distractions that you hear another way
people tend to not give their full
attention is with their eyes I've been
at many events where I'm speaking to
someone and as they're listening to me
you can tell they're looking past almost
as if hey Wade you're not the most
important person in this room I'm trying
to see the next person I want to speak
to after we're done this conversation
and again that's not a good feeling so
make that eye contact and that leads me
into my next tip which is utilize
nonverbal cues I just mentioned eye
contact rather than having your eyes
wander you should be making eye contact
with the person you're speaking with and
you should use other non-verbal cues as
well try to have a smile on your face so
you're encouraging obviously it needs to
match what they're talking about if
they're talking about something serious
you don't want to be overly Smiley but
add in things like subtle head nods when
they're mentioning something that's
important or if they say something
surprising you should have a look on
your face that resembles yeah that is a
surprising piece of information whether
that's an eyebrow raise these are common
pieces but these will show the person
who's speaking to you that you are truly
engaged in what they are saying the next
tip is probably the most important thing
and the best way to show you are an
active listener is asking questions when
we're in conversations it's very
tempting for our mind to be racing
thinking about the next thing we're
going to say to contribute to the
conversation but the problem with that
while we're thinking of our own stories
is we're not paying full attention to
the person who's speaking to us if we
reframe that and instead of thinking
about what we're going to say next we
truly get interested about what the
person is saying to us and have the task
of asking questions or have that as a
priority it will completely reshape the
conversations we're having there's
research to back this up back in 2017
there was a Harvard research study which
found that people who ask questions in
conversations are more liked by their
conversation Partners than people who do
not because we're showing a genuine
interest by listening carefully and
thinking up more questions and seeking
to get more information from this person
that person will feel validated like
whatever they're talking about is
important because we care enough to ask
more questions about it this is my
number one tip when it comes to the best
way to show your active listening skills
and that is asking questions the next
way you can work on active listening
skills is to avoid interrupting the
person who we're speaking with if
somebody is telling a big story and we
want to jump in but they're building
momentum in their conversation and
they're excited if we jump in and
interrupt that there's a good chance
that will stifle their excitement about
the story and not always there's
situations where people feed off off of
each other jumping in wanting to know
more information but beware of
constantly interrupting people because
there are those people who are simply
more passive when it comes to their
communication style and if they hear
somebody else speak they will just stop
their story right there and allow the
other person to take over but it's not a
great feeling for that person if they're
not able to get a word in edgewise so
ensure that you are allowing those
people to tell their full stories it's
great to have questions it's great to
have stories of our own to contribute to
the conversation but avoid interrupting
or interjecting when somebody is in the
middle of whatever they are talking
about my final tip on how to have great
active listening skills comes from a
friend of mine who happens to be a
hairdresser and she is one of the best
conversationalists she always remembers
things she if you think about it spends
her whole day working with clients
hearing their stories and she has to be
a good listener she has to practice
those active listening skills because
that is the majority of her job is
having conversations throughout the day
and what I noticed about her was time
and time again when I was having
conversations she would always remember
key things I had told her in the past
and at one point I asked her how she's
so good at this or how her memory is
always always on point that she
remembers these things and she explained
to me that she's purposeful about it
after she meets with a client or a
friend she has notes in her phone which
she keeps on different people that she's
interacted with now certain professions
know this very well for example many
real estate agents have something called
a CRM which is a client relationship
management tool and that is to keep
notes and information on the clients so
that they don't forget key things and I
think that all of us should approach
that with our social relationships of
truly listening carefully and then
making note of certain things if there's
an acquaintance who you're starting to
get to know a little bit better and they
mention they have two kids and what
their kids are interested in make a note
of that because the next time you see
that person that is a great reminder to
ask them about how their kids are
because their kids are probably their
world and it will be meaningful to them
that you've asked about that and on the
flip side it's good to do a little bit
of research prior to meeting up with
somebody so if you're going for lunch
with somebody who you haven't seen in
the last year that's the great thing
about social media you can pull up their
social media their Instagram their
Facebook and you can learn a couple of
things that they've been up to in the
last year that way when you're meeting
with that person you can ask questions
about things you've seen on their
timeline of life that they voluntarily
put out there and that will be
meaningful but also you'll be more
engaged because you'll already have a
bit of Base information about whatever
that person has shared so you're already
a little bit invested in the story and
it will be easier to use some of the
other skills that we talked about
earlier like asking questions and not
getting distracted I hope these five
active listening skills were beneficial
to you if they were let me know make a
comment Down Below in this video make
sure you subscribe if you haven't
already done that and thank you so much
for taking the time to watch this video
I will catch you on the next one